Character List: Player, Dr. Avery DeWitt, MUS-L

(wrrrrr) (wrrrr) (wrrrr)

The sounds of rocks break and chip against a large metal drill, dropping somewhere into the pool of darkness below. A crew of three humanoid individuals stare out into a massive darkened cavern; their eyes slowly adjusting to the shadowed chamber. A warm and sweet breeze blows lightly against the figures and the air feels humid and damp. The silhouetted individual in the front leans further out into the dark, searching for any sign of light. They lean even further; before saying something to their companions. As they turn they lose their footing, slipping down onto the rocks and quickly falling, falling, falling, until!

(SPLASH)

Screen goes dark

Familiar Voice (Scientist): “Captain! (Robot) quick, help me pull her out! We don’t even know if this is normal water!”

Familiar Voice (Robot): “I agree, this water is too abnormally saturated to be considered normal. The captain will need a full scan to determine any injuries or changes in her bodily structure.”

The screen slowly fades in revealing the cavernous background, waterfall, and the speaking figures. The water shines with a vibrant almost neon blue against the purple stone walls and dark velvet and purple trees and roots. The trees give a slight glow and hum like fireflies and illuminate the surrounding cavern and grassy gnoll.

Scientist: “Oh thank goodness, MUS-L you run diagnostics and I’ll make sure the Captain didn’t suffer any memory loss.”

(Player: Thoughts) I...remember this person. Her name is Dr. Avery DeWitt and she is a part of my crew. She’s our chief scientist and medical expert.

MUS-L: “Running diagnostics now...this may take a while, Dr.DeWitt. I will deploy temporary guard mode while waiting until the diagnostics check is complete.”

MUS-L begins to emit a blue wave of light that starts looking me up and down while he turns to face the strange purple and red forest.

(Player: Thoughts) I...remember them too thankfully. It’s MUS-L, our personal Manual Unconditional Service Loader. He’s our bot sent by AstroCorp to assist in the mining and protection of the crew.

Player: “Yes Dr. DeWitt, MUS-L, I feel fine. Probably just gave me a bad bruise is all.”

MUL-T: “Diagnostics is complete: the captain is correct. Only minor injuries were sustained. Life support systems are fully functioning. Glad to see you’re not terminated, Captain.”
Dr. DeWitt: “Oh MUS-L, we talked about this! Avoid using the t-word whenever something bad like this happens it can be insensitive.”

MUS-L (beeping sadly): “I...apologize Captain. I will categorize this information in my deep storage memory banks to permanently retain this for later. I told myself to be better than this.”

Player: “Oh MUS-L relax. Nothing bad happened and you were during as you were directed you have no reason to feel down. Okay, so what’s the situation? Give me a rundown again of everything we know.”

Dr. DeWitt: “Yes Captain, currently not much has changed from our standard mission. Our job from AstroCorp was to investigate and assist in the terraforming process for planet X-43 in the Hollow Mire system. We arrived approximately 12 hours ago; told by the corporation that other drilling operations and machinery have been damaged by strange dead plant roots that the world burrow from underground. Only we three were sent to investigate while the rest of the remaining personal wait aboard our ship ready to assist in getting us away should our lives be in danger. We have gone down through the previous holes left by the machines to continue digging with small equipment and now...we’ve brought you back from falling from the hole we just fell through.”

Player: “Alright, well are you two alright? We can’t continue investigating...whatever this weird forest is unless you two are ready to get moving.”

MUS-L: “Oh I have sustained no serious injuries Captain.”

Dr. DeWitt: “I am fine as well. I’m just nervous about all of this. It’s beautiful but at the same time I can’t help but feel like we’re in a bit of a bind.”

Player: “Well, for now, let’s just focus on what we can control. MUS-L, the water that you mentioned before. Scan it, I wanna know if that glow is just for show. Dr. DeWitt, plan on getting soil and samples of nearby trees for analysis. We can use my- wait. Where’s my datapad?”

Dr. DeWitt: “Oh,  I almost forgot! Captain, here you are; it fell off your belt on the way down. I’ll get started on the samples and then we can try and use the pad to contact the ship.”

MUS-L: “Roger Roger, Captain. I will report back with any updates regarding the contents of the water.”

The doctor quickly begins taking out various tools and scoops small piles of dirt while being careful to scrape off any of the plant matter from the roots. MUS-L begins to walk over to the waterfall that contains the large glowing body of water to begin studying it with his large metal eye.

Player (thoughts): Alright, now I just need to pull up our holographic test kit and see what we can learn.

You look fondly at the chips and dents in its casing. A great deal of use has gone into using this pad ever since it was given to you

Player (thoughts): Oh no...no, no, no. Why the hell can’t I remember my pass number!? We’re screwed if I can’t get this thing booted on; we could be trapped here without any way to know what we’re dealing with. Wait, didn’t MUS-L have a spare code somewhere?

The screen then shows the back of MUS-L’s robotic form. Multiple different scraps and scrapes are covered on his body. There also appears to be a sticky note stapled to his chest.

Player (thoughts): Oh...that’s right, gotta remember to take that off!

The player has then prompted to input the code by looking at the sticky note from the visual clue on MUS-L. They pass and fail depending on user input. After they succeed…

The datapad flickers to life and showcases a wide array of conditions of the crew as well as displays what current notes/objects are contained within and on hand.

Player: “Ah, now we’re cooking! MUS-L, Doctor, you got anything you can give me about this place?”

(I was thinking for this a way to showcase the different choices you can make is choosing which information to get from which character first. Let me know what you think.)

Dr. DeWitt: (confused): “Well, this specific plant type and soil structure are unlike anything I’ve ever seen in previous studies and analysis of other planets. The plant matter appears to (says grossly)...ungulate when disturbed; the soil is full of rich nutrients that also cause rapid growth of the plant matter I’ve observed.”

Player: “Huh, I guess that makes this trip so far somewhat of a success and an unfortunate failure. Great stuff to potentially grow grass and edible plants with but so far underground makes it not ideal. MUS-L, got anything on the water yet?”

MUS-L: “Affirmative Captain. My scans indicate that the water at present in this section underground is nearly entirely saturated with carbon dioxide as well as nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium. The chemical makeup of the liquid, strange as it is, could theoretically be produced by other plant life on current organic plant data at a .0001% odds of success with enough roots and chloroplasts.”

Dr. DeWitt: “MUS-L, you can’t be serious. Even if it were possible that would mean that...”

Dr. DeWitt then looks at the water, then to the forest, then to the large cavernous ceiling. MUS-L’s light flashes at low, dim brightness, his body humming which echoes throughout the cave. Their silence concerning, their body language stiff and still.

Player: “Doctor, MUS-L; what did you guys figure out? We haven’t got all day to stand stunned.”

They both turn to face each other nervously, then towards me and begin to explain…

MUS-L: “The only logical connection that can be formed with our understanding of data is that the entire planet is one central organic life form.”

Player: “I’m sorry, are you saying we’re currently attempting to terraform a plant the size of a planet?!”

Dr. DeWitt: “I’m afraid so...however, this would explain the damage to previous attempts made at drilling. The plant is trying to protect some of its most dense but vital areas that support its life. The fact that it can do that though and is so massive is extremely troubling.”

MUS-L: “Observing current data though, this plant is vitally tied to everything here and with its soil and water that it produces could potentially be used as a resource for future operations. Also, our drill was not blocked off. This data point could be assumed to mean small team operations could be done at a slower pace to come down here.”

Player: “I’m...not sure what this is going to mean everyone but be certain that as captain of this crew our mission has now changed. We need to learn more about...whatever this thing is and fast so we can figure out our next steps moving forward.”

Dr. DeWitt: “I suggest then that we get moving towards this nearby thicket then Captain. It would lead more into the woodwork so we could further analyze and observe any data on the vegetation and its rapid growth effects. (looking uncomfortably) Also, being out in this open space leaves me feeling rather exposed.”

MUS-L: “Captain, if I may suggest an alternate route? This water’s special properties must lead to some sort of source deeper into possibly a location of an area of localized routes. (boops excitedly) I also am...interested in how this water could be potentially used to better our terraforming process on the surface.”

Dr. DrWitt: “No matter which way we start; we’ll stick together Captain. I don’t think going at it alone is a great idea right now…”

MUS-L: “Affirmative, the potentiality of injuring one’s self when travelling an alien underground forest could be estimated near a startling percentile?”

Captain: “You have data on this from the corporation MUS-L?”

MUS-L: (boop laughter) “I was just attempting a joke; was it not funny?”

Dr.DeWitt: (slightly chuckling) “It was certainly an... attempt MUS-L.”

Player (thoughts): Hmm, a potential water source or a stronger and more localized area of the vegetation. We’ll most likely be able to get to both as long as nothing goes wrong but which direction would be best to start?



The player is then given the choice to move into the thicket or towards the direction past the waterfall. Either direction will lead to the other area after the first is visited.

Chapter 2:
(For this section I’ll be starting Ch. 2 as the thicket and Ch. 2 as the water source area since it helps form an easier flow when writing.)

Player: “I think you’re right Doctor, we need to keep moving before anything else out of the ordinary finds us sitting around. MUS-L, if we have time I’m sure we’ll be able to make our way back to the source of the water.”

MUS-L: “I will keep my hope modules at a reasonable expectation Captain.”

Dr. DeWitt: “I think this is going to be the start of a potential way inside the forest Captain. Let’s go through here!”

(Wipe to black for commentary)

We make our way through the forest’s opening; the wetness in the air causing an immediate sense of a jungle seeping with moisture. The dark violet earth crunching against the bottoms of our feet. The trees become thicker and denser as we pass over large roots and vines. We walk like this for a while, MUS-L, and Dr.DeWitt occasionally commenting on the strangeness of this bizarre place we’ve found ourselves in.

(Fade into the thicker background of the treeline, the large structure in the middle immediately ((if possible maybe we could have it be sort of a reveal like have it be dark and then when it gets mentioned it gets brighter? Not sure how that would work but I thought it could be a cool idea if it’s easy enough to do)) apparent in the background.)

We begin to pass deeper into the dark wood; our eyes split between the leaves, vines, and trees turning a once bio-luminescent warm cave into a very shadowy and dense mass of tall, strange trees that surround and tower us. In the cave there were some scattered about and were much smaller; but, due to the datapad and Dr.DeWitt’s tools picking up a much stronger reading of biological importance we left without an up-close analysis. Now though...the slick and glistening violet bark; magenta tinted vines intertwined with strange vertically propped branches forming conular bundles atop the treeline.

Beeeeep. Beeeeeeep. Beeeeeeeeeeeep!

The datapad rings out loud. Looks like we’ve found something


Dr. DeWitt: (excitedly) “We’re getting close, whatever is nearby has a high amount of the platelets and vegetative tissue like the trees by where we first came from. This data could be the key to unlocking a form of reliable organic food generation; breakthroughs for natural medicinal supplies!”

MUS-L walks past me; his eye beams start scanning the surrounding treeline for any potential life forms.

MUS-L: “There are currently no potential hostels or new life forms being detected with my scans Captain. However, I do sense that the centralized structure here is different in its visuals than the cavern walls from earlier.”

(This is where I was thinking it could get spotlit a bit, if not then I can reshuffle what I wrote to fit better.)

MUS-L’s flashlight eyes begin to turn on like a spotlight and gaze at a mass of stone and roots up ahead, his eyes revealing something we couldn’t see at first: the stonework was carved and decorated. Purples, grays, blues, and reds faintly dot the stonework like an ancient cave painting. While it’s barely recognizable from the damage; it’s clear that someone...something was depicted on these destroyed ruins.

Captain: “I...I can barely believe what I’m seeing. Doctor, what do you make of this?..... Doctor?”

I turn to the Doctor...Avery...but she just stands there in awe; processing the importance of this discovery. After some quiet couple beats of silence, we begin to snap out of shock. Avery’s voice breaks the tensions with... 

Dr. DeWitt: “Captain…, whatever this forest is, whatever it has done, it’s so much more than what anyone could have expected back home. We have to study it further; there’s so much we need to understand.”

Captain: “I agree…, although we still need to be careful as much as we can. We should gather the date that we came here first before diving into anything further. MUS-L, help Dr. DeWitt set up her supplies; I’m going to keep an eye out for anything living in that pile of rubble.”

MUS-L: “Affirmative Captain. Dr. Dewitt, if you need any of my hands feel free tae one.” 

MUS-L begins to remove one of his robotic metal arms and it slides off with no effort

Dr. DeWitt: (awkwardly) “Oh, thank you MUS-L but...um...that won’t be necessary. In fact, could you just stand slightly over...here and begin gathering any of the vines together?”

MUS-L: “This is a directive that I can perform. I will begin gathering.”

I watch as Avery and MUS-L work together; our droid gathers the large spiny ropes of plant matter in large bundles under his forearms as Avery lifts the various vines up while she examines their undersides with the datapad. After a few minutes, the doctor starts pulling out various small mechanical devices attaching them to the various vines along the earth. The datapad flickers to life once more; this time performing functions to measure the strength, chemical makeup, and flexibility of the plant matter as well as several other facts of interest.

(This is where I’d imagine the puzzle starts. If it would fit better to move certain things around/change anything just let me know. Upon a success at the puzzle, the text would move on and say.)

With a slight hum, the small robotic devices clamp onto the vines; tiny beams of grid-patterned light moving up and down the spines of the vines.

Dr. DeWitt: (excitedly) “Yes! Okay okay okay, the devices are calibrated now Captain. It’s going to take a while for them to complete a full deconstruction of the plant matter but after a couple hours or so we should have a molecular breakdown! Now, let’s move on to the large one 

MUS-L: (sheepishly) “Excuse me Captain? I believe that now could be a more optimal time to further investigate the unnatural water from earlier. If we must wait, it would be a better function of our time to understand more of this location.”

Dr. DeWitt: “But...we’re so close to uncovering something so incredible!”

This is certainly an incredible find...but MUS-L is right. This information is gonna have to wait sadly until we have a better understanding of everything in this forest itself.

Captain: “MUS-L’s right De. DeWitt, while I’d love to stay and help figure out what all of this could mean, we should get back to someplace we know that’s safer and more open. I know you won’t like it but the water could hold something just as extraordinary as...whatever this means.”

Avery stands dumbfounded at my thought process; her eyes jump between her probes and devices, the large, collapsed, enveloped, structure, and back to me eyes clearly revealing a torn headspace. After a few beats of silence, she says...

Dr. DeWitt: (yelling) “If this isn’t still here by the time we get back, then I swear to both of you my research won’t be the only thing that is incomplete! Hmph!”

Stepping away, Avery marches off back down the path we came and through the dense jungle. MUS-L and I stand there, stuck in stunned silence.


MUS-L: (wistfully) “The mind of a scientist; it’s a hard thing for her to hold back her instincts.” (sadly) “I hope she will not terminate me for my previous recommendation. I am just...drawn to whatever could be at the source.”

Captain: “MUS-L it’s alright, if Avery...Dr. DeWitt should be angry at anyone, it's me. I’m sure she’ll be okay though; she’s a lot harder to crack than she gives herself credit for.”

MUS-L: “Affirmative!”

MUS-L shakes his head as we start our trek back through the wet jungle. A short walk later, we’re able to meet up with Avery, although she isn’t exactly in the speaking mood, while we continue to go back through the entrance we found and start hiking up through more rocky terrain. We pass by small clumps of trees that seem to have more large and flayed branches near the tops. The ground becomes harder; more stable and less wet as large inclines cause us to have to stretch and tug at cliffs and edges of landmasses in order to climb until suddenly...the solemn sound of running water begins to poke at the edges of our ears.

MUS-L: (beeps excitedly) “I believe that we are arriving close to where the source of the water comes from. This should be an interesting discovery!”

We charge further ahead towards the sound; eyes peeled for any creatures and another potential discovery of life uncertain of what we’ll find with our next couple steps. As I begin to take the lead moving closer to the treeline, something massive lies up ahead. I step out into the open bracing for something unknown.

(Fade in the background of the water source)

Instead of the unknown, I see the largest tree in my life. It extends for hundreds and hundreds of feet high; the top branches barely able to be seen as they strangely dig into the ceiling of the cave. The trunk extends down with a purple-green tint to its wood and strangely...holes throughout its lower sides as water gushes from them like a fire hydrant. Moat-like pools of water surround the base as it stands supported with massive vines upon a thin tower of rocks just large enough to hold the tree aloft. The water’s pools surround the tree like a wide base; however, the water does lead off of a cliff to our right. I didn’t realize exactly how high we had climbed but now looking out over the rest of the forest...we have a much better view of the size and scope of this place. As I step out, the others join back with equally fascinated thoughts…

Captain: (whistling) “Whew… well this is weird. Everything we’ve seen so far has been weird but this might just take the proverbial weird cake. What do you think’s going on here guys?”

Dr. DeWitt: (stunned) “I...I don’t know; from looking at the structure from the outside it’s hard to say where the water is coming from and why the tree appears to be so attached to everything. If we could get closer we might be able to get a better idea of what this means but touching that water without knowing what it does seems a bit risky.”

MUS-L: “Then allow me to go, Captain. I can proceed towards the tree to complete my scans and regardless of any damage, I may take you all can gather up various parts and rebuild me later with my backup drives on the ship.”

Captain: “I don’t know...it might be better if we’re all able to come with you for this one. I don’t like the idea of sending in any crew by themselves even if they can theoretically be assembled again. Let’s just see if we can get past these rocks to get an easier path to the tree. MUS-L, think you could give us a hand sorting this out?”

MUS-L: (beeping proudly) “Yes Captain, although I am going to need some things to assist. Namely, a better set of hands. These drills are not are going to be effective for shoving, pushing, and pulling.

(This is where I would imagine the rock puzzle could go, btw I’m not sure if we wanna do the color matching puzzle with the tree in the water source section but I’ll just omit that for this draft and we can put it in later if we have time/fits in our scope.)

(Upon success…)

MUS-L’s large form strains against the rocks as we all prepare to quickly move across the newly opened pathway to the tree. He lunches upon the rocks and with a sudden sound of squeaking metal the rocks begin to break apart; loosening until they eventually find the flow of water that leads off the cliff face. They tumble and bob up and down the water as they eventually slide off the edge of the cliff crashing and tumbling into the earth below.
Dr. DrWitt: “Great job MUS-L! Are you okay? No circuits and parts not damaged from the water or anything?”

MUS-L: “Running diagnostic scan...my systems to appear to be undamaged but something...strange is occurring with a nearby signal that’s close by. It’s strong and coming from...there.”

MUS-L points his large metal hands and turns...to face the tree.

Captain: “MUS-L, what do you mean a signal? And are you certain that it’s coming from the tree?”

MUS-L: (beeping weirdly) “I’m sure Captain; my sensors are reading some sort of frequency and...I feel as if it’s trying to...communica-”

MUS-L suddenly jerks his arms up and begins emitting loud noises from his vocal outputs. He begins to move quickly; lifting himself out of the water and moving quickly across the now cleared path dripping with water.

Captain: “Ah no no no no, Avery we need to stop whatever’s happening right now!”

Dr. DeWitt: (nervously) “Yes Captain!”



Chapter 2: Part 2
(Fade to black.)

(This is the start of the water source; this is where the other branching point from Chapter 1.)

Player: “I think you’re right MUS-L, if this water source has properties like what you’re talking about then finding out more information on where it all comes from could be valuable to better understanding...all of this. Dr. DeWitt, I’m sorry but I’m sure we’ll have time to further investigate the data in more detail later.

Dr.DeWitt: (slightly saddened) “Oh...yeah that’s fine I suppose. Maybe we can take some samples and they’ll have some correlation with the plants.”

MUS-L: “I think this is going to be the start of a way towards the direction of the water flow Captain. Let’s go through here!”

(Wipe to black for commentary)

Captain: “Wherever we’re going, it feels like it’s starting to get higher. Does anyone feel like it’s getting harder to breathe?”

MUS-L: “While I cannot breath, we have been increasing in elevation levels since we left the bottom of the waterfall area. I can also confirm that the earth is becoming harder as we have been continuing climbing upward.

We pass by small clumps of trees that seem to have more large and flayed branches near the tops. The ground becomes harder; more stable and less wet as large inclines cause us to have to stretch and tug at cliffs and edges of landmasses in order to climb until suddenly...the solemn sound of running water begins to poke at the edges of our ears.

MUS-L: (beeps excitedly) “I believe that we are arriving close to where the source of the water comes from. This should be an interesting discovery!”

We charge further ahead towards the sound; eyes peeled for any creatures and another potential discovery of life uncertain of what we’ll find with our next couple steps. As I begin to take the lead moving closer to the treeline, something massive lies up ahead. I step out into the open bracing for something unknown.

(Fade in the background of the water source)

Instead of the unknown, I see the largest tree in my life. It extends for hundreds and hundreds of feet high; the top branches barely able to be seen as they strangely dig into the ceiling of the cave. The trunk extends down with a purple-green tint to its wood and strangely...holes throughout its lower sides as water gushes from them like a fire hydrant. Moat-like pools of water surround the base as it stands supported with massive vines upon a thin tower of rocks just large enough to hold the tree aloft. The water’s pools surround the tree like a wide base; however, the water does lead off of a cliff to our right. I didn’t realize exactly how high we had climbed but now looking out over the rest of the forest...we have a much better view of the size and scope of this place. As I step out, the others join back with equally fascinated thoughts…

Captain: (whistling) “Whew… well this is weird. Everything we’ve seen so far has been weird but this might just take the proverbial weird cake. What do you think’s going on here guys?”

Dr. DeWitt: (stunned) “I...I don’t know; from looking at the structure from the outside it’s hard to say where the water is coming from and why the tree appears to be so attached to everything. If we could get closer we might be able to get a better idea of what this means but touching that water without knowing what it does seems a bit risky.”

MUS-L: “Then allow me to go, Captain. I can proceed towards the tree to complete my scans and regardless of any damage, I may take you all and gather up various parts and rebuild me later with my backup drives on the ship.”

Captain: “I don’t know...it might be better if we’re all able to come with you for this one. I don’t like the idea of sending in any crew by themselves even if they can theoretically be assembled again. Let’s just see if we can get past these rocks to get an easier path to the tree. MUS-L, think you could give us a hand sorting this out?”

MUS-L: (beeping proudly) “Yes Captain, although I am going to need some things to assist. Namely, a better set of hands. These drills are not going to be effective for shoving, pushing, and pulling.

(This is where I would imagine the rock puzzle could go, btw I’m not sure if we wanna do the color matching puzzle with the tree in the water source section but I’ll just omit that for this draft and we can put it in later if we have time/fits in our scope.)

(Upon success…)

MUS-L’s large form strains against the rocks as we all prepare to quickly move across the newly opened pathway to the tree. He lunches upon the rocks and with a sudden sound of squeaking metal the rocks begin to break apart; loosening until they eventually find the flow of water that leads off the cliff face. They tumble and bob up and down the water as they eventually slide off the edge of the cliff crashing and tumbling into the earth below.

Dr. DrWitt: “Great job MUS-L! Are you okay? No circuits and parts not damaged from the water or anything?”

MUS-L: “Running diagnostic scan...my systems appear to be undamaged but something...strange is occurring with a nearby signal that’s close by. It’s strong and coming from...there.”

MUS-L points his large metal hands and turns...to face the tree.

Captain: “MUS-L, what do you mean a signal? And are you certain that it’s coming from the tree?”

MUS-L: (beeping weirdly) “I’m sure Captain; my sensors are reading some sort of frequency and...I feel as if it’s trying to...communi-”

MUS-L suddenly jerks his arms up and begins emitting loud noises from his vocal outputs.


Captain: “MUS-L...MUS-L, hey are you okay? Avery, what the hell is going on?”

Dr. DeWitt: “I’m not sure...but something appears to have affected MUS-L’s circuitry and-”

He begins to move quickly; lifting himself out of the water and moving quickly across the now cleared path dripping with water.

Captain: “Ah no no no no, Avery we need to stop whatever’s happening right now!”

Dr. DeWitt: (nervously) “Yes Captain!”

We both race past the rocky waters; understanding clearly that whatever has happened to MUS-L could endanger not only themselves but also risk our chances of all of us getting out of here alive and safe. Climbing on the rocky path; we follow after MUS-L as he rolls ahead of us. Before we’re able to catch up, MUS-L’s arms dig into the mound of dirt and roots and start climbing up, digging their claws into the earth as he starts moving upward.

MUS-L: (nervous beeping) “Captain, this signal...I do not understand it’s capability to direct me. All I...feel is that I must go further towards this tree.”

He climbs higher and higher before reaching the top just as we reach the base of the mound of roots and dirt.

Dr.DeWitt: “Captain, I’ll give you a boost just catch up with him and hurry!”

With the help of Dr.DeWitt, I grip the earth and with a running leap heave my body onto the massive structure this tree sits on. Standing there, the tree is even more massive and imposing up close; the massive holes where water pour out on all sides pumping the shining fluorescent water down the rocks and off the cliff's edge. Looking straight ahead, MUS-L stands still in front of the largest hole and by his feet the roots are slowly swirling and rising around him.

Captain: “MUS-L, look out!”

I run towards my metal friend and as I wrap my arms around him and pull him away the roots start to snake towards my feet like snakes before stopping just on the outside edge of the mound of rocks, dirt, and root we stand on.

Captain: (yelling) “MUS-L!” I shake him; his central light flashing over his head. Screens read out error codes as I attempt to understand what happened to him. Suddenly, the error codes all flash off and the still metal husk of MUS-L for a moment locks in place...before suddenly, his central eye flashes once more with a familiar yellow-blue light.

MUS-L: (confused) “Captain...I do not understand whas has just transpired. Is everything functioning normally?”

A sigh of relief passes from my lips.

Captain: “MUS-L, we need to talk right now. Come on down; Avery is probably worried sick about us.”

Dr. DeWitt: “You’re damn right I am! What the hell happened to you MUS-L?”

As we climb down, MUS-L explains over the next few hours how his vision went dark after pushing the rocks, how he saw the colossal tree reach out to him through its roots, and the images that he saw while frozen.

MUS-L: “The only logical summary I can surmise from this encounter is that the forest was attempting to communicate somehow. I do not understand it’s reasoning; but in line with company policy in possible engagement of alien life forms with intelligence we must first ascertain its level of danger through further contact.”

Dr.DeWitt: “Woah, woah, woah. Forget the company for a second MUS-L; you almost lost yourself trying to investigate this tree and now you wanna go back? We still need to further find out about the ruins back in the denser areas of the tree.

MUS-L: “I’m sorry Captain; Dr.DeWitt but I cannot leave at this moment. My...directive is enforcing protocol that I stay and further use tools and assessments to better understand the potential of what has transpired. Captain, as leader of the crew and with company privileges I cannot disobey you except for particular clauses such as this event. I urge you to stay and continue with the procedure I am following.”

Dr.DeWitt: “Captain, what MUS-L is saying is important but the fact that more lifeforms could have been here AND now knowing what this forest is capable of is more than enough reason to go back and focus on what we’ve found. My devices finished up a little while ago so we’re clear to go back now. Please!”






Chapter 3:
(This Chapter starts similarly like Ch. 2, but is the other half of each area; to reflect the choice players make to either leave or stay at the end of the chapter [Ex: Ch. 2- Thicket then Water or water then thicket. Ch. 3 = Choose to stay in water/thicket or go to water/thicket]).

Captain: “MUS-L...is there no changing your mind about leaving?”

MUS-L: “Captain...I can’t. I must attempt to...discover exactly how this has affected me and what it must be in relation to the company’s protocols. It feels like I’m learning something new that I’ll forget if I leave.”

Dr. DeWitt: “If you feel like that’s what is best for you MUS-L but...we’re both worried about you. You’ve been acting a lot stranger since we got down here; it’s like you’ve become more...alive.”

MUS-L: “If I am to be alive, then I suppose there must be a reason for what has happened to have happened.”

Captain: “Then good luck finding out what that is MUS-L, we need to leave right now and we can’t just leave you behind so let’s go.”

As I reached forward, MUS-L’s large metal arms reached out and grabbed mine; squeezing with a force I’ve never felt lay on my body before. They ever have laid a finger on any of us before and the pain shocks me to my core.

Captain: “Agh! MUS-L, you’re hurting me! Let go, please!”

MUS-L: (upset beeping) “Captain...I’m sorry.

He lets go now, a large red and purple mark shaped like MUS-L’s hand taking his hands place.

MUS-L: “Captain...Doctor...I urge you to not interfere with what I’m feeling and what I’m doing.”

Dr.DeWitt: (shocked and angered) “Captain! MUS-L what’s going on; why are you acting like this!? Has this thing made you completely lose it?!”

MUS-L: (lower beeping) “I believe that what...I’m doing...what has been done...is an order that I cannot override. To better understand this forest and what it’s capable of is my mission and its importance cannot be changed.”

Dr.DeWitt: “Listen to yourself MUS-L; this thing has clearly done something to you and it’s not going to stop!”


Captain: “MUS-L, I don’t wanna have to do this, but I’m ordering you to come back with us. Please.”

But MUS-L doesn’t move.

Dr.DeWitt: “Come on Captain, there’s nothing more we can do for him. He’s still just a machine after all.”

Captain: “I know…come on let’s go.”
MUS-L: (solemn boop) “Captain....I urge for your safe return back to the crew. I will return; one way or another.”

(Thought a dialogue option that might be fun is in Ch. 3 you get the option to respond differently before leaving the other)

(Resolution): “MUS-L...whatever happens just know that no matter how many times you can come back we want you right now safe. Be careful.”
(Bitter): “We’ll be fine. Just...do whatever you’ve been ordered to do.”
(Say nothing)

We stumble down the steppe in silence; unsure of exactly what happened to our crewmate. Only after breaking past the clearing is when we speak.

Dr. DeWitt: (solemnly) “You know...MUS-L doesn’t have any control over what they are doing? At least...I think he doesn’t. The corporation never really told us much about how they are made or designed but...from when they gave us to him he’s never pulled anything like that before. Do you think he really did see something somehow?”

Captain: “I don’t know Avery...everything about what’s happening is just making me feel that coming out here and taking this mission was a mistake. I just can’t put my finger on why yet.”

Dr.DeWitt: “Well...whatever happens moving forward, we’ll figure it out together. All three of us; even if we may not agree on how to figure it out.”

Following the path back through the brush we travel through the dense foliage once more; our feet aching and sore from what could be hours or even days of traveling. Trying to measure distance and time here feels like it’s moving slower and faster at the same time. We finish off the remaining food we carried as we eventually reach the familiar structure once more.

(Fade in Thicket w/devices)

The devices Dr.DeWitt left on the foliage and vines near the outskirts of the rubble flash a familiar color signaling they’ve completed their scans. Avery moves towards them excitedly; I can see that even through the immense weight of the unknown around us her determination to know more.

Dr.DeWitt: (excitedly) “This is it Captain! I finally have the molecular structure of the plants as well as more in depth readings. It appears that the plant matter’s elemental makeup is similar to that of rubber or aluminum leading to both very malleable and strong fibrous cells.”

She stops there for a moment; adjusting her glasses and falling silent before staring intently at the datapad and the devices. 

Captain: “Avery, what else are you able to make out?...Avery?”

Dr.DeWitt: “This...forest is alive like we thought; but it’s connected somehow. The cells are...moving constantly like writhing snakes and they are able to disconnect and attach themselves to one another like how a STEM cell can form its shape to match and replicate other cells. This place...it has this appearance for a reason but with enough focus the vines and trees could bend and shift if they wanted to but...that would mean this place is capable of so much more…”

Captain: “Okay...so you’re saying it’s alive AND it has done what exactly? Has it been holding back being able to do something to us...does it even know we’re here?”

Dr.DeWitt: “I...I don’t know but whatever this place is certainly could qualify under the corporations clause on finding sentient life. In order to know for sure though, I feel like whatever’s over there might have some answers.”

She points towards the ruined and tumbled structures ahead.

Captain: “...Look, as long as we promise each other to stick together...AND we’re careful...AND we don’t do anything stupid...then let’s try and figure things out.”

Dr.DeWitt: (excited) “Lead the way then, Captain!”

Stepping over the vines and mounds of roots, we step slowly and carefully towards the ruins. As we begin to approach, a sickening fear begins to fill the pit in my chest and throat. The feeling of fear that an animal in the wilderness feels when being hunted...no other way of describing the immense feeling of being watched could fill my mind. Avery felt it too; her eyes went wide with this sudden pressure as we approached. But we press on…

Captain: (quietly) “Whatever you do...be as quiet and slow as you can.”

She nods as we continue; silent step followed by silent step. Getting closer to the ruins, we see now that the building’s previous design and decor has been violently sundered and nearly all of the once-near recognizable art has faded with time. We get closer, the mound of vine and root now closer suddenly seeing it gyrate slowly; like it was breathing. We are so close now that the smell of something...rotten begins to take notice in the air. I try to get closer and peak further in; my head maybe two or three feet from this would up mass. Inside...the remains of something once alive but now turned into new life. Fungus-like balls of spores and purple and red flowers rest over the bones and bodies of things one living. As I lead in further and turn back to warn Avery to move back, I hear the good doctor wince in pain. I look down as I see her foot start to bleed on the smallest spine of a vine and before I know it…

A clicking...then a hiss and a flash of a small serrated flower toothed mouth whips from the mound and leaps at Avery. I go to shove her but before I can get there it whips around me and with a small CRUNCH Avery begins to cry out....

Dr.DeWitt: “MY ARM! MY ****** ARM” (not sure if we do a censored curse, type out a real curse, or just avoid it and change it to something else)

She immediately falls to the ground and wails like a loud siren as I go to rush and carry her away as fast I can run. I turned back...and whatever came for her disappeared back into the mound of horror.





